README.md, before:

# data-pipelines-cli

CLI for data platform

## Installation
TODO

## Usage
First, create a repository with a global configuration file that you or your organization will be using. The repository
should contain `dp.yml.tmpl` file looking similar to this:
```yaml
username: YOUR_USERNAME
templates:
  my-first-template:
    template_name: my-first-template
    template_path: https://github.com/<YOUR_USERNAME>/<YOUR_TEMPLATE>.git
source_type: bigquery
```
Thanks to the [copier](https://copier.readthedocs.io/en/stable/), you can leverage Jinja template syntax to create
easily modifiable configuration templates. Just create `copier.yml` file next to the `dp.yml.tmpl` one and configure
the template questions (read more at [copier documentation](https://copier.readthedocs.io/en/stable/configuring/)).

Then, run `dp init <CONFIG_REPOSITORY_URL>` to initialize **dp**. You can also drop `<CONFIG_REPOSITORY_URL>` argument,
**dp** will get initialized with default example config (although keep in mind it is very basic).

### Project creation

You can use `dp create <NEW_PROJECT_PATH>` to choose one of the templates added before and create the project in
`<NEW_PROJECT_PATH>` directory. You can also use `dp create <NEW_PROJECT_PATH> <LINK_TO_TEMPLATE_REPOSITORY>` to point
directly to a template repository. If `<LINK_TO_TEMPLATE_REPOSITORY>` proves to be a name of the template defined in
**dp**'s config file, `dp create` will choose the template by the name instead of trying to download the repository.

`dp template-list` lists all added templates.

### Project deployment

`dp deploy` will sync with your bucket provider. Provider will be chosen automatically based on the remote URL.
`dp deploy` also requires user to point to JSON or YAML file with provider-specific data like access tokens or project
names. E.g., to connect with Google Cloud Storage, one should run:
```bash
echo '{"token": "<PATH_TO_YOUR_TOKEN>", "project_name": "<YOUR_PROJECT_NAME>"}' > gs_args.json
dp deploy "gs://<YOUR_GS_PATH>" --blob-args gs_args.json
```

When finished, call `dp clean` to remove compilation related directories.

## Contributing
Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.

Commit message:

Read vars from config and pass to dbt

README.md, after:

# data-pipelines-cli

CLI for data platform

## Installation
TODO

## Usage
First, create a repository with a global configuration file that you or your organization will be using. The repository
should contain `dp.yml.tmpl` file looking similar to this:
```yaml
username: YOUR_USERNAME
templates:
  my-first-template:
    template_name: my-first-template
    template_path: https://github.com/<YOUR_USERNAME>/<YOUR_TEMPLATE>.git
source_type: bigquery
```
Thanks to the [copier](https://copier.readthedocs.io/en/stable/), you can leverage Jinja template syntax to create
easily modifiable configuration templates. Just create `copier.yml` file next to the `dp.yml.tmpl` one and configure
the template questions (read more at [copier documentation](https://copier.readthedocs.io/en/stable/configuring/)).

Then, run `dp init <CONFIG_REPOSITORY_URL>` to initialize **dp**. You can also drop `<CONFIG_REPOSITORY_URL>` argument,
**dp** will get initialized with default example config (although keep in mind it is very basic).

### Project creation

You can use `dp create <NEW_PROJECT_PATH>` to choose one of the templates added before and create the project in
`<NEW_PROJECT_PATH>` directory. You can also use `dp create <NEW_PROJECT_PATH> <LINK_TO_TEMPLATE_REPOSITORY>` to point
directly to a template repository. If `<LINK_TO_TEMPLATE_REPOSITORY>` proves to be a name of the template defined in
**dp**'s config file, `dp create` will choose the template by the name instead of trying to download the repository.

`dp template-list` lists all added templates.

### Project deployment

`dp deploy` will sync with your bucket provider. Provider will be chosen automatically based on the remote URL.
`dp deploy` also requires user to point to JSON or YAML file with provider-specific data like access tokens or project
names. E.g., to connect with Google Cloud Storage, one should run:
```bash
echo '{"token": "<PATH_TO_YOUR_TOKEN>", "project_name": "<YOUR_PROJECT_NAME>"}' > gs_args.json
dp deploy "gs://<YOUR_GS_PATH>" --blob-args gs_args.json
```

When finished, call `dp clean` to remove compilation related directories.

### Variables
You can put dictionary of variables to be passed to `dbt` in your `config/<ENV>/dbt.yml` file, following the convention
presented in [the guide at dbt site](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/building-a-dbt-project/building-models/using-variables#defining-variables-in-dbt_projectyml).
E.g., if one of fields of `config/<SNOWFLAKE_ENV>/snowflake.yml` looks like this:
```yaml
schema: "{{ var('snowflake_schema') }}"
```
you should put following in your `config/<SNOWFLAKE_ENV>/dbt.yml` file:
```yaml
vars:
  snowflake_schema: EXAMPLE_SCHEMA
```
and then run your `dp run --env <SNOWFLAKE_ENV>` (or any similar command).

## Contributing
Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.
